Let's see this in action.
At this point, color on the code found in
the course notes section so that you can follow along with me.
I've opened the code and I've navigated to the location controller.
This code is for the airport locations API that we've seen in previous lessons.
There is a location entity,
a location repository that communicates with our H2 in memory database,
there is a service layer,
and lastly this location controller.
Let's look at the location controller.
If you remember, there are two methods.
The first method, getAllLocations is mapped to
the location path and returned the list of locations from the H2 in-memory database.
The second method is the getLocation method.
Notice we parse in an ID for a specific location
that we want information on and it's mapped to this path.
So let's look at creating a unit test for our location controller.
So you can navigate to LocationControllerUnitTest and let's take a look at it.
Here on line 19,
I'm using the @RunWith annotation and this
defines the runner class to be used to run test cases.
In this case, I'm using SpringRunner and that's
a great choice since I'm using Spring to build this application.
Here on line 20 I'm using the web MBC tests and this uses the LocationController,
so it's the specific controller that you're trying to test,
that's what you parse in.
So that's why we're using LocationController here.
On line 23 I'm using MockMVC.
MockMVC offers a powerful way to quickly test
MVC controllers without needing to start a full HTTP server.
Now WebMVC tests, auto configures MockMVC for us, that's very helpful.
Here on line 26,
I'm mocking the location service bean using the @MockBean annotation.
Now the @MachBean creates a Mockito Mock of
the services which are dependencies for the location controller.
Now let's look at the getAllLocations test method.
So this method is going to test the getAllLocations method from our controller.
Notice here on line 28,
I'm using the @Test annotation just to indicate it's a Unit Test.
On line 30, I'm using the perform method for
MockMVC and this simply simulates an HTTP request to erase controller.
If you notice, we're making a get request to this location path for our rest controller.
What comes next are what's called Expectations.
You can set Expectations on HTTP responses received from the controller class.
So in this case,
we are expecting the status returned to be okay,
we are expecting the content type to be of type APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8,
and we are expecting JSON back.
Here on line 35,
I'm using the verify method.
It's simply used to verify the number of times a mock method has been called.
Here since I'm mocking the location service,
I'm saying I only want it called once and I
want the retrieveLocations method to be called.
So that's our unit tests. Let's test it.
Click this green arrow and do run getAllLocations.
Let me expand this so that you can see what's happening,
and we have a green check mark saying the test passed.
Now let's look at the second test case for our getLocation method,
we've annotated it with @Test,
we're using the MockMVC perform method to simulate the call,
and we're parsing in a location of one.
We are verifying that it's called only once and we're
calling the retrieve location parsing in the ID of one.
So let's execute this test.
Here we have another green check saying this test passed.
So that's a look at Unit Testing.
Now let's talk about Integration Testing.